Another network service that will make you a job in IT support easier is DHCP,
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol. Either refresh on DHCP, just check out the
DHCP lessons and networking course. When managing IT infrastructure, and you
want to connect a computer on a network, you have two options. You can grant it
a static IP address or give it a DHCP assigned IP address. When you use a static
IP address, you have to keep track of every IP address you assign a computer and
manually entered in the network settings. If you enable DHCP, your computers
will be leased an IP address from a DHCP server. They'll automatically get IP
addresses, and you don't have to worry about manually setting addresses. If you
ever decide you need to expand your IP address range, you don't have to change
anything on the client machines either, it just happens automatically. To
configure a DHCP server, you need to figure out which IP range you can use to
assign IP addresses. If you want to integrate with DNS, you need the address of
your local DNS servers. What Gateway you should assign, and the subnet mask that
gets used. Once you solve the DHCP sever software, you had to configure the
settings with this information. Different DHCP server software manufacturers
have different configuration setting layouts, so you have to investigate the
specific one you want to use. There are a lot of popular DHCP server software
you can use for this. Windows Server versions come with DHCP sevice built-in,
but you can read more about the options in the next reading. Once you turn on
your DHCP server and your client is set to receive DHCP addresses instead of
static IP addresses, you should have working DHCP settings. In the last lesson,
we talked about how DNS ties in with DHCP. Well now in a DHCP configuration
settings, we can specify a DNS server locations. The two servers then sync up
and when DHCP leases out new addresses, DNS updates IP address mappings
automatically. That's a super quick overview how DHCP servers are configured.
Hopefully you can now see why DHCP and DNS are critical network services for
your organization.