There are a few network services that are used internally in an IT enterprise
environment, to improve employee productivity, privacy and security. While
they're pretty common, you might not encounter them in small organizations. We
discussed these services in course two on networking, but let's do a refresher.
We're sure that you encounter them at some point in your IT career. There are
Intranets and Proxy servers. An Intranet is an internal network inside a
company. It's accessible if you're on a company's network. Intranets can provide
a wide range of information, and are meant to improve productivity by giving
employees a greater medium to share information. Think of it like the company's
website, that's only accessible to people on the company network. On this site
documentation can be centrally located, teams can post news updates, employees
can write in forums and start discussions and more. Intranets are most commonly
seen in large enterprises, and can be incredibly valuable tool for employee
productivity. Another internal support service that's widely used is a proxy
server. Proxy server acts as an intermediary between a company's network and the
Internet. They receive network traffic and relay that information to the company
network. This way, company network traffic is kept private from the Internet.
The internet gets traffic through a Proxy server, but it doesn't know where it
originally came from. It only knows the proxy. Proxy servers can also be used to
monitor and log internal company network activity. They can be configured, so
certain websites are filtered from being accessed. Proxy servers are useful for
fighting privacy and security on the Internet, and regulating access inside a
company. In the next few lessons, we'll talk about what are probably the most
essential network services DNS and DHCP.