In a small company, it's usually a sys admin's responsibility to decide what
computer policies to use. In larger companies with hundreds of employees or
more, this responsibility usually falls under the chief security officer. But in
smaller businesses or shops, as the IT lingo goes, the sys admin has to think
carefully about computer security and whether or not to allow access to certain
users. There are few common policy questions that come up in most IT settings
that you should know. Should users be allowed to install software? Probably not.
You could run the risk of having a user or accidentally install malicious
software, which we'll learn about in the upcoming course in security. Should
users have complex passwords with certain requirements? It's definitely a good
rule of thumb to create a complex password that has symbols, random numbers, and
letters. A good guideline for a password blend is to make sure it has a minimum
of 8 characters, that make it more difficult for someone to crack. Should you be
able to view non-work related websites like Facebook? That's a personal call.
Some organisations prefer that their employees only use their work computer and
network strictly for business, but many allow other uses, so their employee can
promote their business or goods on social media platforms, stay up to date on
current events, and so on. It will definitely be a policy that you and your
organization's leaders can work out together. If you hand out a company phone to
an employee, should you set a device password? Absolutely. People lose their
mobile devices all the time. If a device is lost or stolen, it should be
password protected, at the very least, so that someone else can't easily view
company emails. We'll dive way deeper into the broader impact and implications
of security and organizational policies in the security course that's last up in
this program. These are just a few of the policy questions that can come up.
Whenever policies are decided upon, have to be documented somewhere. As you know
from a lesson in documentation in the first course, it's supercritical to
maintain good documentation. If you're managing systems, you'll be responsible
for documenting your company's policies, routine procedures, and more. You can
store this documentation on internal wiki site, file server, software, wherever.
The takeaway here is that having documentation of policies already available to
your employees will help them learn and maintain those policies.