Oh, the Cloud, the magical wonderful Cloud that you hear about in the news that
moves data across the white fluffy windows in the sky. The magical Cloud
dispersed bits of data across the world in itty bitty raindrops, right? No,
that's not how the Cloud works at all, but you'd be surprised how many people
believed that. There's no doubt you've heard the term Cloud in the news or from
other people. Your photos are stored in the Cloud, your email is stored in the
Cloud. Cloud computing is the concept that you can access your data, use
applications, store files, et cetera, from anywhere in the world as long as you
have an internet connection. But the Cloud isn't a magical thing. It's just a
network of servers that store and process our data. You might have heard the
word data center before. A data center is a facility that stores hundreds, if
not thousands of servers. Companies with large amounts of data have to keep
their information stored in places like data centers. Large companies like
Google and Facebook usually own their own data centers because they have
billions of users that need access to their data at all times. Smaller companies
could do this, but usually rent out part of a data center for their needs. When
you use the Cloud service, this data is typically stored in the data center or
multiple data centers, anywhere that's large enough to hold the information of
millions, maybe even billions of users. It's easy to see why the Cloud has
become a popular way of computing in the last few years. Now instead of holding
onto terabytes of storage space on your laptop, you can upload that data to a
file storage service like Dropbox, which stores that data in a managed location
like a data center. The same goes for your organization. Instead of managing
your own servers, you can use internet services that handle everything for you
including security updates, server hardware, routine software updates, and more.
But with each of these options come a few drawbacks. The first is cost. When you
buy a server, you pay upfront for the hardware. That way, you can set up your
services like a file storage at potentially very little cost because you're the
one managing it. When you use Internet services like Dropbox, that offer file
storage online, the starting cost may be smaller. But in the long term, costs
could add up since you're paying a fixed amount every month. When comparing the
cost of services, always keep in mind what a subscription could cost you for
every user in your organization. Weigh that against maintaining your own
hardware in the long term and then make a decision that works best for your
organization. The second drawback is dependency. Your data is beholden to these
platforms. If there's an issue with the service, someone other than you is
responsible for getting it up and running again. That could cost your company
precious loss of productivity and data. No matter what method you choose,
remember that you're still responsible for the problems that arise when there's
an issue. If Dropbox is having an issue with your important user data, it's
still your problem and you have to get it working again no matter what. To
prevent a situation like that from popping up, you might consider backing up
some critical data in the Cloud and on a physical disk. That way, if one system
goes down, you have another way to solve the problem. Whether you choose to
maintain physical service or use Cloud services, these are the type of things
you need to think about when providing services to your company. In the next
couple of lessons, we're going to talk about some of the other responsibilities
of the system admin. We'll give you a high level overview of these, then dive
even deeper later in this course.