We talked about troubleshooting alert. In an earlier course, but it's worth
mentioning again, when you're managing an entire IT infrastructure, you'll
constantly have to troubleshoot problems and find solutions for your IT needs.
This will probably take up most of your time as an IT support specialist. This
could involve a single client machine from an employee or server or service that
isn't behaving normally. Some folks, who start their careers in IT support
deepen their knowledge to become system administrators. They go from working on
one machine to multiple machines. For me, I made the leap during my internship
as an IT support specialist in college at a semiconductor lab. The lab ended up
closing and they needed help deprecating the environment. So, what started as an
IT help desk support quickly transition to assist admin role. That opportunity
was my golden ticket to dowland to Active Directory, Sub netting and decision
making which is a core part of this job. Sys admins also have to troubleshoot
and prioritize issues at a larger scale. If a server that sys admin manage stop
providing services to a thousand users and one person had an issue about the
printer, which do you think would have to be worked on first. Whatever the
scenario, there are two skills that are critical to arriving at a good solution
for your users. We already covered them in an earlier course. Do you know what
they are? The first is troubleshooting, asking questions, isolating the problem,
following the cookie crumbs, and reading logs are the best ways to figure out
the issue. You might have to read logs from multiple machines or even the entire
network. We talked about centralized logging a little bit in the last course on
operating systems and you becoming a power user. If you need a refresher to how
centralized logging works, check out the supplemental reading. Anyway, the
second super important skill that we covered is customer service; showing
empathy, using the right tone of voice and dealing well with difficult
situations. These skills are essential to all IT roles. In some companies,
sysadmins have to be available around the clock. If a server or network goes
down in the middle of the night, someone has to be available to get it working
again. Don't worry, a sysadmin doesn't have to be awake and available 24/7. They
can monitor their service and have it alert them in case of a problem. So how do
you keep track of your troubleshooting? A common industry standard is to use
some sort of ticketing or bug system. This is where users can request help on an
issue and then you can track your troubleshooting work, through the ticketing
system. This helps you organize and prioritize issues and document
troubleshooting steps. Throughout this course, we'll introduce types of services
that a sysadmin needs to maintain and what responsibilities they have in an
organization. We'll also share some best practices for troubleshooting when it
comes to systems administration. When you work as an IT support specialist,
systems administration can become part of your job. So it helps to think about
all aspects of managing an IT infrastructure in an organization. The more
prepared you are the better.