In other responsibilities sys admins have is managing users and hardware. sys
admins have to be able to create new users and give them access to their
company's resources. On the flipside of that, they also have to remove users
from an IT infrastructure if users leave the company. It's not just user
accounts they have to worry about, sys admins are also responsible for user
machines. They have to make sure a user is able to log in and that the computer
has the necessary software that a user needs to be productive. Sys admins also
have to ensure that the hardware they are provisioning or setting up for users
is standardized in some way. We talked in an earlier course about imaging a
machine with the same image. This practice is industry standard with dealing
with multiple user environments. Not only do sys admins have to standardize
settings on a machine, they have to figure out the hardware lifecycle of a
machine. They often think of the hardware lifecycle of a machine in the literal
way. When was it built? When was it first used? Did the organization buy it
brand new or was it used? Who maintained it before? How many users have used it
in the current organization? What happens to this machine if someone needs a new
one? These are all good questions to ask when thinking about an organization's
technology. sys admins don't want to keep a ten year old computer in their
organization. Or maybe they do. Even that's something they might have to make a
decision on. There are four main stages of the hardware lifecycle. Procurement.
This is the stage where hardware is purchased or re-used for any employee.
Deployment. This is where hardware is set up so that the employee can do their
job. Maintenance. This is the stage where software is updated and hardware
issues are fixed if and when they occur. Retirement. In this final stage,
hardware becomes unusable or no longer needed and it needs to be properly
removed from the fleet. In a small position, a typical hardware lifecycle might
go something like this. First, a new employee is hired by the company, human
resources tells you to provision a computer for them and set up their user
account. Next, you allocate a computer you have from your inventory or you order
a new one if you need it. When you allocate hardware you may need to tag the
machine with a sticker so they can keep track of which inventory belongs to the
organization. Next, you image the computer with the base image for further using
a streamlined method that we discussed in our last course, operating systems and
you. Next, you name the computer with a standardised host name. This helps with
managing machines. More on that when we talk about directory services later. In
regards to the name itself, we talked about using a format such as
username-location, but other host name starters can be used. Check out the
supplemental reading to find out more. After that, you install software the user
needs on their machine. Then the new employee starts and you streamline the
setup process for them by providing instructions on how to log into their new
machine, get email etc. Eventually, if a computer sees a hardware issue, a
failure, you look into it and think through the next steps. If it's getting too
old, you'll have to figure out where to recycle it and where to get new
hardware. Finally, if a user leaves the company you'll also have to remove their
access from IT resources and wipe the machine so that you can eventually
re-allocate it to someone else. Imaging. Installing software and configuring
settings on a new computer can get a little time consuming. In a small company
you don't do it often enough where it makes much of a difference, but in a
larger company a time consuming process just won't cut it. You'll have to learn
automated ways to provision new machines so that you only spend minutes on this
and not hours.