Before we can get into the nitty gritty of what systems administration is, we
need to talk about what these systems are. All musicians don't just run on their
own, employees need computers along with access to the Internet to reach out to
clients. The organization websites needs to be up and running. Firewall have to
be shared back and forth and so much more. All of these requirements make up the
IT infrastructure of an organization. IT infrastructure encompasses the
software, the hardware, network, and services required for an organization to
operate in an enterprise IT environment. Without an IT infrastructure, employees
wouldn't be able to do their jobs and the whole company will crumble before it
even get started. So organizations employ the help of someone like a systems
administrator to manage the company's IT infrastructure. System administrators
or as we like to call them sysadmins, are the unsung heroes in organization.
They work in the background to make sure a company's IT infrastructure is always
working, constantly fighting to prevent IT disasters from happening. Notice all
of the really hard work that sysadmins put in. So show a little appreciation for
your sysadmin by celebrating System Administrator Appreciation Day worldwide.
Yes that's a real thing. In all seriousness, sysadmins have a lot of different
responsibilities. Any company that has an IT presence needs a sysadmin or
someone who handles those responsibilities. The role of a sysadmin can vary
depending on the size of an organization. As an organization gets bigger, you
need teams of sysadmins. Their responsibilities may be separated out into
different roles with job titles like network administrators and database
administrators. Companies like Facebook and Apple, don't have a single person
running the IT show. But in smaller companies, it's usually a single person who
manages the entire company's IT infrastructure. In this course, we'll focus on
how just one person you, can single handedly manage an IT infrastructure. You
learn the skills you need to manage an organization of less than 100 people as a
sole IT person. As you start to scale up to large organizations, you also need
to level up your knowledge of systems administration. You need to pick up skills
that allow you to automate workflows and manage configurations or computer
settings automatically. Right now, let's focus on systems administration in a
small organization. In the next couple of lessons, we're going to talk in detail
about the responsibilities of sysadmin and how that relates to the role of IT
support specialist who handle system administration.