When you run a service that operates on the web, you need to have a web server
that serves web pages to clients that request it, like we just covered. But you
may also need to store information. Have you ever thought about what happens to
your information when you create an account online for a website? Where do they
store that info? Do they put it in a folder on a web server? If they do, you
need to stop using that service immediately. Customer information, like news
articles, videos, large amounts of text, image or audio files generally get
stored in a database. Databases allow us to store query, filter, and manage
large amounts of data. When you build a web product, you'll probably store the
data in a database. Database servers consist of database software that's running
that you're able to read and write from. Common database systems like MySQL and
PostgreSQL are widely used in application and web development and data
analytics. These database systems usually require a knowledge of special
languages or syntaxes to be able to parse and filter through the large amounts
of data. If you want to dig deeper into database systems, check out the next
reading. Administrating and managing a database can be incredibly complex.
Losing precious data could cost the company dearly. There's actually an entire
job specialization within IT that deals with databases just like that called
database administrators. We won't talk about their role in this program, but if
you're interested in learning more, you should know where to look, the
supplemental reading.